1. What data types do each of these values represent?

a) "A Clockwork Orange" - String
b) 42 - Integer
c) 09/02/1945 - Number
d) 98.7 - Float
e) $15.99 - Float

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
A database would be used when a large number of data is to be used and reused by multiple people. Whether they just access the data of write to the database is up to the creator of the database. If it's just for you to use and access then a text file is sufficient. 

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
SQL is one of the languages that is used to access and manipulate databases. Unlike other languages SQL is used to execute queries against a database it can retire data, insert data, update record, delete records and create new databases, tables. It can do just about anything but only with a database. 

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
A database is like a giant spreadsheet that holds data in rows and columns. As a user we can use SQL to retrieve data from the database, we can tell it what to look for and it will find it and send it back to us. We can specify one thing to retrieve, two or all of the information for a specific search query. 

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
Table is where the data is stored. For Example we have an employee table that holds their name, pay, employee number, role, start date etc..
Row is each individual object of data. In our example each employee would be a row. 
Column is the type of data in each row. All of the employees pay would be in a column
Value. The specific cell would be the value. $25 per hour is the value for the employee pay. 

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.
String
Number
Float

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;
	Find the date and amount of each paymen

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;
	Give me the payments that had an amount greater than 500. 

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
	Return all the payments where the payee is Mega Foods

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
	SELECT email, signup
	FROM users
	WHERE name = "DeAndre Data";

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
	SELECT userid
	FROM users
	WHERE email = "alessia.algorithm@uw.edu";

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
	SELECT *
	FROM users
	WERE userid = 4;
